# Bachelor Theses on Monster


## Incomplete symbolic execution with Monster: Solver by Alexander Lackner, University of Salzburg, Austria, 2021 ([PDF](https://github.com/cksystemsgroup/monster/releases/download/v0.1.0/Incomplete_Symbolic_Execution_with_Monster_Solver.pdf), [Release](https://github.com/cksystemsgroup/monster/releases/tag/v0.1.0))

Monster is a symbolic execution engine that can use different SMT solvers to detect bugs in C* programs. Solvers are the bottleneck of symbolic execution engines, therfore a faster solver directly leads to faster symbolic execution. Since symbolic execution is incomplete by design, we took this a step further, implementing and designing an incomplete solver based on Aina Niemetz's work. Our solver being incomplete does mean that it can not decide if an SMT formula is unsatisfiable. We use this to our advantage by not searching the entire set of assignments but instead a smaller subset. This should lead to a faster and less accurate solver. We reached the following results benchmarking against Boolector and Z3, while Monster was able to be competitive when shorter and simpler programs were being fed into the engine, it struggled with long and more complex programs with no or hard-to-find solutions meaning its performance dropped significantly. It did however always return the same results as its counterpart, showing that its accuracy is just as high which is a feat itself given the short timeframe and being constructed by three bachelor students.


## Incomplete symbolic execution with Monster: System by Alexander Linz, University of Salzburg, Austria, 2021 ([PDF](https://github.com/cksystemsgroup/monster/releases/download/v0.1.0/Incomplete_Symbolic_Execution_with_Monster_System.pdf), [Release](https://github.com/cksystemsgroup/monster/releases/tag/v0.1.0))

This thesis presents an overview of the Monster Project, an incomplete symbolic execution engine and solver. Symbolic execution is the procedure of executing a program not on concrete inputs but rather on symbolic values. An engine in this context is providing formulas to be solved, which indicate a bug in the program if they are satisfiable. This theses presents the components of Monster, mainly: The loader, the engine and the solver; all of which are designed to work independently and be interchangeable. Additionally, this theses shows the various third party solvers that have been integrated with the Monster engine and why Monster is limited to the Selfie system and thus only works with C* code and RISC-U instructions. Monsters solver follows a blueprint laid out by Aina Niemetz and her colleagues in a recent paper, which proposes that using an incomplete solver improves solving speeds for symbolic execution drastically.
